Storm Surge:
Definition
	
When a hurricane is forming over open, 
warm ocean waters, the wind pushing the 
water and the low atmospheric pressure 
in the eye of the hurricane cause the 
level of the sea to rise, whipping the 
water into gigantic waves. Because this 
is happening away from land, the water 
can escape and move freely away from the 
building storm. But as the hurricane 
moves towards land and the depth of the 
water becomes more shallow, the 
ever-increasing wall of water does not 
have a chance to flow away. Instead it is 
built up around the eye of the hurricane 
and forms huge waves. These mountainous 
waves pound against the land and anything 
in its path—buildings, homes, piers, and 
people. Storm surges can be more 
devastating depending upon the strength 
of the hurricane's winds and the 
shallowness of the off-shore waters.
